README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/hakdogan/ElasticSearch.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/hakdogan/ElasticSearch)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/0da01a34f91c4120aafbef85506b08d9)](https://www.codacy.com/app/hakdogan/ElasticSearch?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=hakdogan/ElasticSearch&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
!["Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/hakdogan/elasticsearch.svg)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/hakdogan/ElasticSearch/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/hakdogan/ElasticSearch?branch=master)
[![Analytics](https://ga-beacon.appspot.com/UA-110069051-1/ElasticSearch/readme)](https://github.com/igrigorik/ga-beacon)

Illustration and demonstration use of ElasticSearch
===================================================

This repository illustrates and demonstrates the use of ElasticSearch Java API via `Transport Client` and `Java High Level REST Client`. If you want to see the sample of the old version, please visit the [oldVersion](https://github.com/hakdogan/ElasticSearch/tree/oldVersion) branch.

## What you will learn in this repository?

* How to use Transport Client
  * How to perform Administration operations
  * Index creation
  * Mapping settings
* How to use Java High Level REST Client
  * How to perform CRUD operations

### Initialization Transport Client
```java
    @Bean(destroyMethod = "close")
    public TransportClient getTransportClient() throws UnknownHostException {
        try (TransportClient client = new PreBuiltTransportClient(Settings.EMPTY)
                .addTransportAddress(new TransportAddress(InetAddress.getByName(props.getClients().getHostname()),
                        props.getClients().getTransportPort()))){
            return client;
        }
    }
```

### Initialization Java High Level REST Client
```java
    @Bean(destroyMethod = "close")
    public RestHighLevelClient getRestClient() {
        return new RestHighLevelClient(RestClient.builder(new HttpHost(props.getClients().getHostname(),
                props.getClients().getHttpPort(), props.getClients().getScheme())));
    }
```

### Index creation with Transport Client
```java
IndicesExistsRequest request = new IndicesExistsRequest(props.getIndex().getName());
IndicesExistsResponse indicesExistsResponse = indicesAdminClient.exists(request).actionGet();
```

### Shard and Replica Settings
```java
indicesAdminClient.prepareCreate(props.getIndex().getName())
    .setSettings(Settings.builder()
        .put("index.number_of_shards", props.getIndex().getShard())
        .put("index.number_of_replicas", props.getIndex().getReplica()))
    .get();
```

### Mapping Settings
```java
    XContentBuilder builder = jsonBuilder()
        .startObject()
            .startObject(props.getIndex().getType())
                .startObject("properties")
                    .startObject("id")
                        .field("type", "text")
                    .endObject()
                    .startObject("firstname")
                        .field("type", "text")
                    .endObject()
                    .startObject("lastname")
                        .field("type", "text")
                    .endObject()
                    .startObject("message")
                        .field("type", "text")
                    .endObject()
                .endObject()
            .endObject()
        .endObject();
        
    indicesAdminClient.preparePutMapping(props.getIndex().getName())
        .setType(props.getIndex().getType())
        .setSource(builder.string(), XContentType.JSON).get();
```

### Index creation with Java High Level REST Client
```java
IndexRequest request = new IndexRequest(props.getIndex().getName(), props.getIndex().getType());
request.source(gson.toJson(document), XContentType.JSON);
IndexResponse response = client.index(request);
```

### Using SearchSourceBuilder and showing search results
```java
sourceBuilder.query(builder);
SearchRequest searchRequest = getSearchRequest();

SearchResponse searchResponse = client.search(searchRequest);
SearchHits hits = searchResponse.getHits();
SearchHit[] searchHits = hits.getHits();
for (SearchHit hit : searchHits) {
    Document doc = gson.fromJson(hit.getSourceAsString(), Document.class);
    doc.setId(hit.getId());
    result.add(doc);
}
```

### Using Query String with Wildcard
```java
result = getDocuments(QueryBuilders.queryStringQuery("*" + query.toLowerCase() + "*"));
```

### Document deletion
```
DeleteRequest deleteRequest = new DeleteRequest(props.getIndex().getName(), props.getIndex().getType(), id);
```

## How to compile?
```
mvn clean install
```
Testcontainers library needs Docker daemon, if you don't have it you should use `-Dmaven.test.skip=true` parameter.

## How to run?
```
mvn spring-boot:run
```

## How to run with Docker?
```
docker run -d --name elasticsearch -p 8080:8080 hakdogan/elasticsearch:newVersion
```

![](image/image.gif)

Commit message:

Docker run options have been refactored.

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/hakdogan/ElasticSearch.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/hakdogan/ElasticSearch)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/0da01a34f91c4120aafbef85506b08d9)](https://www.codacy.com/app/hakdogan/ElasticSearch?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=hakdogan/ElasticSearch&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
!["Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/hakdogan/elasticsearch.svg)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/hakdogan/ElasticSearch/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/hakdogan/ElasticSearch?branch=master)
[![Analytics](https://ga-beacon.appspot.com/UA-110069051-1/ElasticSearch/readme)](https://github.com/igrigorik/ga-beacon)

Illustration and demonstration use of ElasticSearch
===================================================

This repository illustrates and demonstrates the use of ElasticSearch Java API via `Transport Client` and `Java High Level REST Client`. If you want to see the sample of the old version, please visit the [oldVersion](https://github.com/hakdogan/ElasticSearch/tree/oldVersion) branch.

## What you will learn in this repository?

* How to use Transport Client
  * How to perform Administration operations
  * Index creation
  * Mapping settings
* How to use Java High Level REST Client
  * How to perform CRUD operations

### Initialization Transport Client
```java
    @Bean(destroyMethod = "close")
    public TransportClient getTransportClient() throws UnknownHostException {
        try (TransportClient client = new PreBuiltTransportClient(Settings.EMPTY)
                .addTransportAddress(new TransportAddress(InetAddress.getByName(props.getClients().getHostname()),
                        props.getClients().getTransportPort()))){
            return client;
        }
    }
```

### Initialization Java High Level REST Client
```java
    @Bean(destroyMethod = "close")
    public RestHighLevelClient getRestClient() {
        return new RestHighLevelClient(RestClient.builder(new HttpHost(props.getClients().getHostname(),
                props.getClients().getHttpPort(), props.getClients().getScheme())));
    }
```

### Index creation with Transport Client
```java
IndicesExistsRequest request = new IndicesExistsRequest(props.getIndex().getName());
IndicesExistsResponse indicesExistsResponse = indicesAdminClient.exists(request).actionGet();
```

### Shard and Replica Settings
```java
indicesAdminClient.prepareCreate(props.getIndex().getName())
    .setSettings(Settings.builder()
        .put("index.number_of_shards", props.getIndex().getShard())
        .put("index.number_of_replicas", props.getIndex().getReplica()))
    .get();
```

### Mapping Settings
```java
    XContentBuilder builder = jsonBuilder()
        .startObject()
            .startObject(props.getIndex().getType())
                .startObject("properties")
                    .startObject("id")
                        .field("type", "text")
                    .endObject()
                    .startObject("firstname")
                        .field("type", "text")
                    .endObject()
                    .startObject("lastname")
                        .field("type", "text")
                    .endObject()
                    .startObject("message")
                        .field("type", "text")
                    .endObject()
                .endObject()
            .endObject()
        .endObject();
        
    indicesAdminClient.preparePutMapping(props.getIndex().getName())
        .setType(props.getIndex().getType())
        .setSource(builder.string(), XContentType.JSON).get();
```

### Index creation with Java High Level REST Client
```java
IndexRequest request = new IndexRequest(props.getIndex().getName(), props.getIndex().getType());
request.source(gson.toJson(document), XContentType.JSON);
IndexResponse response = client.index(request);
```

### Using SearchSourceBuilder and showing search results
```java
sourceBuilder.query(builder);
SearchRequest searchRequest = getSearchRequest();

SearchResponse searchResponse = client.search(searchRequest);
SearchHits hits = searchResponse.getHits();
SearchHit[] searchHits = hits.getHits();
for (SearchHit hit : searchHits) {
    Document doc = gson.fromJson(hit.getSourceAsString(), Document.class);
    doc.setId(hit.getId());
    result.add(doc);
}
```

### Using Query String with Wildcard
```java
result = getDocuments(QueryBuilders.queryStringQuery("*" + query.toLowerCase() + "*"));
```

### Document deletion
```
DeleteRequest deleteRequest = new DeleteRequest(props.getIndex().getName(), props.getIndex().getType(), id);
```

## How to compile?
```
mvn clean install
```
Testcontainers library needs Docker daemon, if you don't have it you should use `-Dmaven.test.skip=true` parameter.

## How to run?
```
mvn spring-boot:run
```

With this option, you should provide an `elasticsearch server`.

## How to run with Docker?
```
sh run.sh
```

With this option, this application and an `elasticsearch server` run together.

![](image/image.gif)
